A NEW STATE OF THE ART PLATFORM FOR PROBABILISTIC AND DETERMINISTIC SEISMIC HAZARD ASSESSMENT

Gabriel Candia *, Jorge Macedo , Miguel A. Jaimes , Carolina Magna-Verdugo
* Corresponding author: gcandia@udd.cl, Av. Plaza 680 Las Condes, Santiago-Chile.

CITATION
Gabriel Candia, Jorge Macedo, Miguel A. Jaimes, Carolina Magna-Verdugo; A New State of the Art Platform for Probabilistic and Deterministic Seismic Hazard Assessment. Seismological Research Letters. doi: https://doi.org/10.1785/0220190025"

INTRODUCTION
The open source platform SeismicHazard complements existing PSHA software, and serves as a hub for state-of-the-art developments in seismic hazard assessment, providing useful inputs for risk-based evaluations. The main software capabilities are listed in the table below; they consist of standard and advanced features, allowing the user to conduct 'traditional' seismic hazard assessment or conduct advanced analyses that incorporate the most recent developments in earthquake engineering and seismology. The URL below contains short clips with tutorial videos showing the platform's use and main functionalities https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLs7YV1kZOt6n_9FvEN1dBxv7jPtfLt79H
Several software capabilities are not yet available and will be included in future releases of the code. For instance, the platform does not support time-dependent (non-Poissonian) magnitude recurrence models, non-uniform distribution of hypocenter locations along the dip for fault sources, mixture models for ground motion residuals or models other than lognormal, the support of fault-system earthquake-rupture forecast or the relaxation of the ergodic assumption.

AUTHORS AND FUNDING INSTITUTIONS
In the development of SeismicHazard, the authors listed above have received financial support from the following funding institutions: Facultad de Ingenieria Civil at Universidad del Desarrollo; the National Research Center for Integrated Natural Disaster Management CONICYT/FONDAP/15110017; FONDECYT through Grant No.1170836 "SIBER-RISK: SImulation Based Earthquake Risk and Resilience of Interdependent Systems and NetworKs"; FONDECYT through Grant No.11180937 "Seismic Risk of Mined Tunnels"; Georgia Institute of Technology through the start-up faculty funding of the second author, Instituto de Ingenieria UNAM through Research Fund R974; Facultad de Ingenieria y Ciencias at Universidad Adolfo Ibanez; and Facultad de Ingenieria y Ciencias at Universidad Diego Portales.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Operating System
	Windows 10
	Windows 7 Service Pack 1
	macOS Mojave (10.14)
	macOS High-Sierra (10.13)
RAM
	minimum of 4 GB
	recommended 8 GB
MATLAB
	standard or network license
	R2018a or Higher
	mapping Toolbox
	recommended: Distributed Computing Toolbox
Others
	processors: Any Intel or AMD x86-64 processor
	internet connection
	recommended: Google API key for earth maps and site elevation data
	recommended: GitHub


SOFTWARE DOWNLOAD AND INSTALLATION
The platform files are organized in a folder structure, which shall be downloaded directly from GitHub at https://github.com/gacandia/SeismicHazard. To run the platform, add the entire folder structure to MATLAB's path typing the command addpath(genpath(install_dir)) in MATLAB's workspace, where install_dir is a string containing the full path to the installation directory. To run the platform, type SeismicHazard in MATLAB's workspace.

USER AGREEMENT
The distribution and commercialization of the SeismicHazard platform and any of its tools is prohibited, as well as any subsequent development as part of improvements to it without prior consultation of the platform corresponding author. Users are welcome to provide feedback, and report errors through GitHub. Updates and improvements to the code will be posted periodically. The users of the platform SeismicHazard are requested to cite the software's SRL article in their work and publications. The correct citation shall be:

"Gabriel Candia, Jorge Macedo, Miguel A. Jaimes, Carolina Magna-Verdugo; A New State of the Art Platform for Probabilistic and Deterministic Seismic Hazard Assessment. Seismological Research Letters. doi: https://doi.org/10.1785/0220190025"

DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
The platform "SeismicHazard", its associated files, routines, and tools are released in their current version "as is" and are subject to constant revisions as new research becomes available. The authors, the funding institutions, and all the individuals who contributed in the development and review of the platform are not responsible for any error in the code, inaccuracy, or error in the data generated by the software; the end user assumes the entire responsibility of its use. Under no circumstance the authors and the funding institutions shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential damage suffered as result the use, misuse, or reliance on the data and numerical procedures of the platform. In addition, the authors and funding institutions reject any guarantee, including, but not limited to, the commercialization and operation guarantees for any particular purpose. Likewise, the author and funding institutions have no obligation to provide maintenance, support, updates, improvements or modifications.
